Port MASTG-TEST-0030 (PendingIntent) to v2 format (#3562)
OWASP/mastg: tests-beta/android/MASVS-PLATFORM/MASTG-TEST-0x01.md

---
title: References to Insecure PendingIntent Creation
platform: android
id: MASTG-TEST-0x01
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0066
best-practices: [MASTG-BEST-0x01]
profiles: [L1, L2]
---

## Overview

This test checks for references to [`PendingIntent`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/PendingIntent) creation APIs to identify potentially insecure implementations. A `PendingIntent` wraps an `Intent` that will be executed later on behalf of the app's identity and permissions, making it critical to configure them securely.

`PendingIntent` objects can be obtained through these API methods:

- `PendingIntent.getActivity()`
- `PendingIntent.getActivities()`
- `PendingIntent.getService()`
- `PendingIntent.getForegroundService()`
- `PendingIntent.getBroadcast()`

The primary security concerns when using `PendingIntent` are:

> - **Mutability**: A mutable `PendingIntent` allows the receiving app to modify the base intent's unfilled fields (action, data, categories, extras, etc.). This can enable malicious apps to redirect the intent to unintended components or inject malicious data. Use [`PendingIntent.FLAG_IMMUTABLE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/PendingIntent#FLAG_IMMUTABLE) to prevent modification of the base intent. Note that prior to Android 12 (API level 31), `PendingIntent` objects were mutable by default, while since Android 12 they are [immutable by default](https://developer.android.com/about/versions/12/behavior-changes-12#pending-intent-mutability).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Mutability**: A mutable `PendingIntent` allows the receiving app to modify the base intent's unfilled fields (action, data, categories, extras, etc.). This can enable malicious apps to redirect the intent to unintended components or inject malicious data. Use [`PendingIntent.FLAG_IMMUTABLE`](https://developer.android.com/reference/android/app/PendingIntent#FLAG_IMMUTABLE) to prevent modification of the base intent. Note that prior to Android 12 (API level 31), `PendingIntent` objects were mutable by default, while since Android 12 (API level 31), the mutability of each `PendingIntent` object [must be specified](https://developer.android.com/guide/components/intents-filters#DeclareMutabilityPendingIntent "must be specified") using either `FLAG_MUTABLE` or the `FLAG_IMMUTABLE` flag.
```

Reviewer: - This was mentioned and fixed in [#3751](https://github.com/OWASP/mastg/issues/3751).
